(upbeat music)
All right, we're gonna learn
about scroll events right now.
A scroll event, obviously is when somebody goes ahead
and scrolls on the page, or scrolls inside of an element.
And a pretty common thing that I've had
to code a couple times in my life,
and I'm sure you'll have to code,
is terms and conditions, scroll to accept.
And, it's kind of an annoying one to do as a user,
but it's something you, as a developer,
will probably have to do and that is this.
The accept button doesn't work
until you scroll all the way to the bottom.
And then, the accept button will work.
Let me open up my working version right here real quick.
Bonk, and then as soon as I hit it,
you can go ahead and click on the button
and you scroll up and it does scroll.
So, first I wanna just dive into scroll events.
And then, show you why maybe a scroll event
isn't what you want and something that's new,
a newer thing in the browser called IntersectionObserver,
is actually probably what we want.
So, let open up scroll-to-accept.html,
it's in folder 35, and go to your JS.
And, what are we gonna do? IT WORKS.
And, it works, good.
Now, we'll go in here.
So, you're taking a look at this, you're like,
okay, it's not the window or the document scroll.
So, if you wanna listen for a window scroll event,
you just listened for window dot addEventListener.
But if it's the case of another element
that has an overflow scroll set on it,
like I have done with CSS right here,
we have to select that element and listen for scroll on it.
Let's go ahead and say const terms is equal to.
And, we'll select that thing, so document dot querySelector
and we'll grab the terms-and-conditions class.
Now, if we take the terms and we add and event listener
and listen for a scroll
and when that happens, let's just
take the event, console log event.
Gonna refresh this, addEventListener of null?
Oh, so this is a problem that you're gonna get often.
It cannot read property, or it cannot run method,
blah, blah, blah, of undefined or blah, blah, blah of null.
And, what's happening here is that
that means our selector here is empty.
It should be null, see?
And, it didn't find anything.
And, if that's the case, your selector is probably wrong.
Sort of another thing while we're in this head space
of querySelector and something doesn't work,
it's actually pretty common to have some JavaScript
that only runs on specific pages.
And, if you were to run this right here on,
let's say your terms-and-conditions doesn't exist
on your home page and you run this JavaScript
on your home page, then it will break.
What do you do about that?
Well, I'll show you what I would do in that case.
What I do is I have a function called scrollToAccept.
And then, you put all of your code inside of that function.
And then, what we can do is we will say
if there are terms, then, or no.
If there are no terms, bang,
and we'll talk about that bang in just a second.
If there are no terms, then return.
And then, we're gonna say quit this
there isn't that item on the page.
And, what this does is it checks if there is something found
by the querySelectory so that if they did find something,
then we go ahead and do all of our dom stuff,
listening for scrolls and working with it
and all of the code.
But if they did find nothing,
then we return from this function.
That will stop this function from running
and then it will never run.
So, here, let's try it, oh, it doesn't work
'cause I have to, then you have
to make sure you actually run that function on page load.
And, now, when I refresh, you see
that this is actually logging.
If I screwed up my selector
or that thing wasn't on the page,
then no errors happen and no code is actually run.
So, it's just a bit on the side,
but I thought I would let you know.
And, let's keep going with the rest.
We select the thing, we listen for the scroll event,
and when that happens, we console log the scroll event.
If we open up that scroll event, you'll see type is scroll,
the target, we've got the current target.
It's null at this point, but if you were to console log it,
you would see it.
What other things are on here?
Source element, I've never used that personally myself.
Maybe that's something you could take a look into,
but I've always just used target and event target.
Now, to figure out if this element
has been scrolled all the way to the bottom,
previously, what we've had to do is we would have
to take the e dot currentTarget, or e dot target.
Both of those would work in this case
because a scroll event doesn't bubble
like your regular clicks would.
So, if I scroll on this right here,
we're not unintentionally scrolling anything else
on the page, so you don't really have to worry about that.
But I'm gonna keep it as currentTarget.
Let's see if we're still working well there.
There we go.
And then, you can take the dot scrollTop value,
which is a property on elements
and it will tell you how far it is scrolled from the top.
Now, the way that we figure it out is
if you scroll to the bottom, how do you know
that 1,828 pixels is the bottom?
Well, then you also have
to figure out the height of the element.
So, if we console log e dot currentTarget dot height...
No, not height.
Is it outerHeight?
You can see I don't use this method anymore,
but I just wanted to show you.
No.
Dot scrollHeight.
Now, watch this, so the first one is
how far we're scrolled from the top.
And, the second value is going to be
how high the actual scrolling thing is.
And, now when I log this, you'll see that we're seeing
how far from the top are we scrolled?
That's our first number.
And then, the second number is
how high is the actual scrollable div here?
So, what's the height?
And then, when you reach the very end,
you should see that the values, at some point, are close.
Now, they're not perfectly close
and that is because this element has, let's go to it.
This element has some margin and some padding around it
and it's just a pain to actually have to work with this.
So, you'd have to work with offset heights
and that's a bit of a thing of the past,
so I'm not gonna really teach you any of that
because it's not something you need to use anymore.
And, the way that we do it now
is called IntersectionObserver.
So, rather than figuring out
how far along the page the user has scrolled,
we can actually use
this thing called IntersectionObserver
to figure out if something is currently viewable
on the page.
And, we can do that with this div here.
So, let me show you a simple example first
just to get the idea of how it works.
So, let's go in,
let's just go somewhere in right here.
I'm gonna give myself a strong tag that says watch for me.
Give it a class
of watch.
Now, we want to know when is
that strong tag visible on the page?
Well, what we can do is we'll go here to this
and we'll select that thing, so const watch is equal to.
Then, what we'll do is we'll create this thing
called an IntersectionObserver.
So, IntersectionObserver is something
that will watch if an element is on or off
or partway on or off of the page.
So, what we can do is we can say const ob,
so the Observer is equal to a new IntersectionOberserver.
So, that new keyword, we'll talk about what that is
in coming videos and in coming lessons.
Don't worry about that for now.
Just take a look at it.
And, the IntersectionObserver is going to take a callback,
which is, again, a callback is the function
that gets called at a certain point.
And, it's different than a click callback
or a scroll callback.
But this is a callback that will be fired every single time
that it needs to check if something is currently
on the page.
So, what we'll do is we'll
make a function called obCallback.
And, that will give us a payload.
And, in here, we can just console log payload.
We'll just see what we've got going on there.
Then, we can go up to this IntersectionObserver
and give it obCallback.
And, I'm gonna move this function
above the IntersectionObserver,
so it will stop yelling at me.
And then, now that still is not gonna do anything.
We can get rid of this scroll here as well.
We take a look at our console
That does nothing and that's
because this IntersectionObserver is just a watcher
and we haven't told it to watch any elements yet.
It's a little bit different than
how we do with click handlers.
So, what we do is we take our Observer
and we call the observe method on it
and then you pass it something to watch for.
So, we'll just say, can you watch for this strong tag?
Which we already selected.
Now, every time we go ahead and scroll,
you'll notice that we get this IntersectionObserver entry,
which is our payload, and it's full of information
about all of the items that have come our way.
So, you'll notice that now,
it doesn't just fire every time we scroll.
It only fires when there is new information
that has to be given to us.
So, it fires right away on page load
because it wants to tell us, hey,
that watch strong tag is off the page.
We can't currently see it.
But then, as soon as you start to see it,
where did it go?
There we go, on and off.
As soon as I even go partway on,
see it just peeking out right there?
And then, this IntersectionObserver entry has logged.
Now, if we take a lot at what's in there, open it up,
you'll see a couple interesting things.
It will tell you at what time
from when you started observing it,
so that could be really handy for games.
How long has this item been on the page?
If you have rocket bombs, is a rocket bomb something?
Probably, if you have a rocket bomb falling from the sky
and you wanna know how long has that been on the page
while the person's trying to shoot it?
And then, you can calculate score or something like that.
That'd be kinda interesting.
But what's in there?
You got your target, that's the strong tag.
You have this Boolean, isIntersecting.
That will tell you if it's on the page or off of the page.
And then, there's other information about the
size of the actual element
and what size it is actually on the page.
You see these are pretty much the same thing.
So, that is really helpful information
'cause that will tell us if
that thing is on the page or not.
And, you can do things like take that strong tag,
which is the first thing in the payload.
You can watch for multiple items.
So, now if I take the first thing,
you see we get this IntersectionObserver entry.
We get this isIntersecting Boolean,
so we're gonna put that on the end.
IsIntersecting now.
False, false, false, false, false, true,
false, true, false, true, false.
You see, it'll tell us when it goes on and off.
Now, what's also cool about that is that it will tell us
how much on the page it currently is.
So, we can take a look at this intersectionRatio.
And, zero, zero, zero, one,
zero, and I think if I just put it on just a little bit.
There we go.
It's 6% on.
Just scroll a little bit more.
And then, that's all the way on.
All the way off.
So, it tells you when it's on and off, on and off.
That's kinda cool.
Now, that would probably be a little bit more impressive
if it was a larger element, like an image.
However, we are going to make use of that ratio
to tell us if we have scrolled all the way
to the bottom of it.
So, we're going to take our Observer here.
We can stop watching for that strong tag here.
And, we can take it,
replace it with ob dot observe.
You wanted to take the terms.
And, how do we know if they scrolled to the bottom?
Well, you take the terms and conditions
and then you just wanna find
what's the last thing inside of that?
And, if that's the case, we wanna wait
for this last paragraph tag to be 100% on the screen.
That's how we know they've scrolled to the bottom.
So, we can just say terms dot lastElementChild.
And, that's the way to get the last element
in our terms and conditions div.
So, now we're observing the paragraph.
And, it's not on the page at all.
Not on the page and then, as you see,
as soon as I get to the bottom there,
it will trigger itself on out.
Now, you notice that it's only firing
as soon as it is on the page, 19% on the page.
If I go really quick, 35% on the page.
If I go really slow, like half a percent on the page.
So, how do we tell it to tell us when it's 100% on the page?
Well, we can take this IntersectionObserver
and the second argument can be an options object
and we tell it two things.
First, the root of what we are scrolling with
is our terms and conditions.
By default, that's gonna be the body.
And, with the threshold, we can tell if it's,
we can either give it an array.
So, tell me when it's off and when it's halfway on
and when it's totally on.
Or, we can just say give it to me only
when it is totally on the page.
Now, when I scroll this, it gives us zero immediately
to tell us it's off the page.
And then, oh, you know what's happening?
I think we got a bit of a issue here.
It's never actually firing.
If I change that threshold to something like 0.1,
I bet it will fire.
Yeah, so now we're telling it,
tell me when it's 10% on the page.
And then, it will fire as close as possible to that.
13%.
11%.
10%, yeah, so what's happening here is
if I tell it the threshold of just one,
I'm so cramped on this screen right now
because I wanna get everything on in
and what's happening is that this paragraph here is so tall
that it's never 100% on the page
because by the time I get to the bottom,
part of it is already being hidden.
So, a little way that we can solve that is
you could just put another element at the end of the page,
like maybe an hr or an image or something like that.
And, I bet now,
yeah, there we go, you see this little hr?
That could be any element.
That could be an image.
It could be just a paragraph that says thank you.
As long as it's just small enough to fit,
even on the smallest scrolling of view ports,
it will tell you one.
So, if we go back to this now and we tell it,
tell us when you are 100% on the page.
And then, we can then go in this callback
and take the first item of our payload
and check the intersectionRatio.
So, we can change this to an if.
It is equal to one.
Then, what we'll do is we'll take that button.
So, we'll go up here and grab our button.
And, what is on?
It's got a class of accept.
And, we'll say button dot.
And, the thing that we're gonna
be taking off of it is disabled
'cause there's this disabled attribute on there.
So, we'll say button dot disabled is equal to false.
And, now when I hit the very bottom,
you see that button, the disabled property
is turned to false.
And then, our CSS kicks in.
So, right here, we say when the button is disabled,
give it a opacity of 0.1.
We don't have to do anything with pointer events here
because HTML will automatically stop the button
from being clickable in that case.
So, you can just change it to opacity 0.1.
I've put a transition on there of 0.2 seconds,
so it'll fade in once we hit it.
Now, the other thing that we need to do here is
that if we were to console log REMOVING DISABLED.
You see, it runs there, but if I scroll back up
and down a couple times, it keeps on triggering that
and that might be good for some use cases.
Let's do something funny right here.
Let's say transform translateX negative 100%.
You see, what happens here is that
when I scroll to the bottom, wooh, it brings it on in.
Maybe minus 200%.
Scale 0.5?
Wooh, I like that.
And, what you can do here is just say else,
button dot disabled is equal to true.
Wooh, see how you can kinda go back and forth?
And, that might be what you want for images
or for autoplaying audio or video or something like that.
But, in our case, once it's accepted,
we don't care about it anymore.
So, what we'll do is we will remove.
Or, maybe just we'll stop observing the button.
So, what we can do is we take our Observer,
which is ob, and we can call unobserve and then pass it our,
what are we observing here?
Terms dot lastElementChild.
And, that should stop it from doing any unnecessary work.
And, it's fine that it keeps going,
but now you know that that's not actually
doing any work in the background
and you've freed up computer CPU cycles
to work on something else on the website, so wooh.
And then, once I scroll up now, that's it.
You have to refresh the page to actually make it work again.
So, that's is scroll to accept.
That is scroll to accept.
You don't see this Observer pattern all that much.
The only two ways currently in the browser
are IntersectionObserver, which will tell us
when something is currently scrolled into view,
and there's another one called a ResizeObserver,
which will tell you when an element is resized,
which is pretty nifty.
Hopefully, you enjoyed that, I see you in the next one.